You've been coming in here for a while now, and we've made some progress, no doubt.
But so far, we've been unable to reach a breakthrough.
However, today, something's different.
I can feel it.
You've experienced a lot of significant change in your life, and I suspect that you're finally
ready to open up.
So all that said, I'm going to ask this one more time.
What is the downward spiral?
I was born in 1998 on a Sunday.
When I look back at that year with our modern understanding of how things turned out, it
can be largely seen as a pinnacle.
America was by far the most feared and respected country in the world.
Some of the greatest athletes in this country had the crowning achievement of their entire
careers.
John Elway won the Super Bowl.
Dale Earnhardt won the Daytona 500.
Michael Jordan captured his sixth and final NBA title.
The President of the United States was still an office that was somewhat respected and
revered.
It's tough to look back then, knowing now how things turned out.
I mean, when you look at America now, suffice to say, we've kind of fallen on hard times.
In fact, when you look at just about every measurable aspect of life, it would seem that
just about everything is getting steadily and steadily worse.
It's almost like I came into this world right at the moment when everything started to go
downward.
So if you're asking me when the downward spiral began, the only thing I can say is that it
had to have started sometime between then and now.
The first time I saw YouTube, I was at my friend Todd's house.
I remember we spent all afternoon watching stuff like Charlie the Unicorn, the Laser
Collection, Clay World, all this stuff made by amateur 20-year-olds.
I was still a kid at the time, and before that, I watched a lot of TV, as many people
my age probably did.
Cartoon Network, Nickelodeon.
You pour hours and afternoons into just watching that.
Even at such an early age, I could understand that the effort that went into making a TV
show was something that was seemingly not replicable on just an individual scale.
So when I first tuned in to YouTube and saw people making things by themselves, regular
people with no skills, no prestige, no anything, they could just hop in, make some creative
project and upload it for millions of people to see.
That was mind-blowing to me.
It was like discovering a whole new dimension, and I was hooked, man.
Basically every day I'd come home from school and watch the same videos, I'd watch new videos.
It was truly a brilliant time, and back then on YouTube, no one knew what they were doing.
Everyone was just free to sort of make whatever they wanted.
There were no formulas, there was no trying to appease some sort of algorithm.
People just made stuff that they thought other people would want to see.
There's a real beauty and a simplicity about that era, about people just going out there,
throwing caution into the wind.
But out of all the crazy stuff on this Wild West era of YouTube at the time, I was drawn
into one very particular subgenre.
To date it sort of goes by many names, but back then it had one name, and it was called
YouTube Poop.
Look what I got under me, kid!
So, YouTube Poops, what are they?
I feel like I had a better understanding of it when I was younger, before I developed
the logical means of adult thinking.
To describe YouTube Poop, the closest thing I could compare it to, I guess as a metaphor,
would be digital graffiti.
You're taking these pre-established works, something that's been composed by thousands
of man-hours of professional production, and then you and your 12-year-old wisdom basically
just turn it into a bunch of nonsense.
I guess the part that drew me in is the idea that you can take this existing thing that
everyone knows and transform it in a way where all of a sudden it's like a whole new thing.
Something like Spongebob and Patrick cursing.
There ain't nothing fancy about that word!
You mean fuck?
Yes, that one!
It's like staring into an alternate twisted reality, but with YouTube Poops it sort of
became real.
It was like power, power given to the hand of a mad architect.
I think sometimes it's fun for us to watch something be created, because we know how
fun it may be to destroy.
So in 2010 I've been browsing YouTube, sitting as the silent watcher, and I figure, hey,
I might as well throw my hat in the ring.
It's free, I'm a kid, I have the time.
Let's try to make a YouTube Poop and upload it to a new channel.
And I guess that was the beginning of Emperor Lemon.
So it's March of 2010, and I'm getting ready to upload my very first YouTube Poop.
It was like a four minute edit of the Spongebob episode Idiot Box.
I think I worked on it for weeks, like every day coming home from school, I was obsessed
with it.
I was so eager, ready to just put it out to the world.
So I go to click upload, post my very first video ever, and I get the notification in
my video manager saying that it's been blocked worldwide for a copyright claim.
Well, and that was my welcome to YouTube moment.
It's interesting looking back, knowing the history of this channel, that even from the
very beginning, I was having problems with YouTube.
But okay, it's a rather inauspicious start.
Let's try something new.
And so a couple of months later, I end up posting what is the actual first video that
appears on this channel.
You can never have another first video or first few videos.
There's something so fun about it.
I kind of envy YouTubers who are just starting out.
And that may sound awful rich because any YouTuber starts out as trying to get where
I am.
When you're starting out, there's no expectations.
You don't got an audience, you could just make what you want.
You don't know what you're doing.
And that's great.
You're not jaded over the creative process.
You don't care about views or the algorithm.
It's just fun.
It's kind of what YouTube content is supposed to be in my opinion.
So you were awfully young to be starting YouTube.
Well, that's kind of why I'm glad I wound up in a place like YouTube Poop, where you
could exist pretty much anonymously.
It definitely helped shield me from any personal scrutiny that I certainly wasn't ready for
at the time.
You know, it's hard to be taken seriously as a kid online.
Part of the reason I gravitated towards YTP in the first place is that it allowed me to
be treated equally.
Even though, if I'm being honest with myself, I probably was a little too young at the time.
So my first year on YouTube, I released probably six videos.
I think the most views I got on any of them over that time was like a hundred.
Of course, at the time, I had no standards for anything.
But I was starting to wonder whether I would make anything that would actually break on
through to the next level.
While approaching the one year anniversary of me opening my channel, I got my first big
break.
So back in the day, there was this YouTube pooper known as Barneyisperverted.
He was fairly popular by YouTube Poop standards, made some pretty entertaining SpongeBob poops.
And even though in 2010, my first attempt to post a SpongeBob poop was thwarted by our
wonderful copyright system, by 2011, the heat had died down and I was actually able to post
a SpongeBob YouTube poop on my channel.
And one of these SpongeBob edits gets seen by Barney.
And he posts a very nice comment saying that he loved the video.
Now most YouTuber interactions would just stop there.
But back then, YouTube actually had this function on the site where you could feature somebody
else's video on your own channel.
And out of sheer generosity, Barney put my video up on his far more popular channel.
And after just 24 hours, the video had thousands of views and I crossed a hundred subscribers.
Man, for me at the time, being 13 years old and having my first taste of success on YouTube,
it was like Christmas had come for the second time.
I was so excited.
For that entire week, it was all I could think about.
Going back to the video, watching the views go up and reading comments from all these
people who were becoming new fans.
And after a few months, that video got up to over a hundred thousand views and Emperor
Lemon had officially arrived on the scene.
It took pretty much a whole year to get there, but I had finally climbed that very first
rung of the YouTube ladder.
There was still a hell of a lot further to go, but at that point, I was very content
to be standing on that rung.
It's really funny the way YouTube works sometimes where these seemingly very small events can
have huge consequences later on.
And it's just really funny to me how this one guy who has been inactive for almost a
decade now, a guy who pretty much nobody knows today, was single-handedly responsible for
setting me off on my journey to however far I get.
Barney may have been forgotten, but I'll never forget him.
YouTube back then was pretty much the Wild West.
If you got in trouble back then, there was no saving you.
People could pretty much run roughshod.
And if they got enough friends together to flag your videos, they could just take down
your channel for no reason.
And you'd have no one to review it, no way to appeal.
You just have to accept it and open up a new channel.
And that's how it was back then, especially in YouTube Poop where copyright was always
such a lingering issue.
So back in this time, I wasn't even sure if I was going to make it much longer.
And it came close.
My channel that you know and love today was almost terminated completely.
There was a time when I had two community guidelines strikes.
And of course back then, I didn't exactly have much to lose.
But it's still strange to think that the channel I'm still using more than 12 years later almost
ceased to exist entirely.
But fortunately for me, that third strike never came.
And I could live to YouTube Poop another day.
And I kept making them through the rest of 2011 and 2012.
I was having a good time.
And people liked the videos.
And then at the beginning of 2013, I started to feel something that I hadn't ever felt
before while making YouTube videos.
I was starting to lose motivation for working on projects.
I think by the summer of 2013, I had gotten to around 3,500 subs.
But the channel wasn't really growing by any substantial amount.
It kind of just felt like the same old same old for a while.
For me, the tank was almost empty.
I could sort of feel like I wouldn't be around that much longer.
So that summer, I think about trying something a little bit different.
I think I worked on this video for months.
It was the longest I'd ever spent on any project in my entire life.
And by that August, it was done and ready to post.
I didn't know it at the time, but that one video would change everything.
All right, so The Uncredibles.
I got to say that in my 10-plus year experience of dealing with YouTube, there's certainly
a lot more heartache than anything worth celebrating.
I mean, a lot of times, it's hard.
It's real hard.
It feels like the whole deck is stacked against you.
But every now and then, you find these rare moments where YouTube throws you a bone.
And man, does it feel great.
I remember the video got like 50,000 views in the first week, which is something that
I never came close to achieving on any of the other 30 or so videos I'd done before.
And that was when I sort of knew that this video was different.
And I think by around Christmas time, it hit a million, which at the time for me was
just an unfathomable amount of people.
I was still 15 at the time.
And when you get that many views at that young, it just seems like you don't even know what
to do with it.
Just something about seeing that number, a million, next to something you made.
It's like one of the first numbers that's so big that you can't really visualize it.
It all happened so sudden, it was kind of unbelievable, surreal to see on my end.
It was crazy.
I didn't really know what to do other than just make more videos like it.
Once YouTube gives you that shot in the arm, it's addicting.
It's addicting having all these people watch something you made and they loved it and they
want something more.
I knew I'd made a good product and I wanted to deliver more of it.
I don't know if I just got extremely fortunate or what, but in 2014, I was on a hot streak.
There was a period for about 18 months from the tail end of 2013 to the beginning of 2015,
where it seemed like I couldn't miss.
I mean, I was riding high.
How could you not be?
I had this channel where I never really envisioned that I would be one of these fortunate people
to be so successful and to get views consistently in the millions.
But there I was, I caught the wave and I was definitely enjoying myself.
Of course, that's not to say that there aren't drawbacks with growth because there certainly
are and there certainly were for me, even if I didn't really realize them at the time.
Getting elevated that high up on the pedestal, it's not without consequence.
You know, back in the day when I was just starting out, there were a lot of YouTube
poopers, many of whom I watched on a regular basis and I really enjoyed their stuff.
They were friendly to me.
They would comment on my stuff with words of support.
But once my videos started getting a ton of views, that relationship seemed to change.
There's something about the way people make YouTube poops and carry themselves where it's
almost like you're not supposed to be seen.
You're not supposed to be famous.
It's something tied up within like the pride of the unknown artist.
There was something about the nature of YouTube poops that was supposed to be anonymous.
You weren't really supposed to become a personality from it.
You weren't supposed to revel in the success.
Was there jealousy and resentment?
I mean, I guess.
We all have this same sort of expectation to put in X amount of work and get so much
out of it as a result.
There's a lot of luck involved in YouTube and a lot of people end up far more fortunate
for putting in the same work and that's just how the cookie crumbles.
But yeah, people take umbrage to that.
I get it.
I just feel like the way that I started to be treated was a little bit unfair considering
I had nothing to do with how successful my videos got.
I put them up online just like any other video and they happen to do way more views.
Perhaps it's my fault for not going out and making friends with these people when I should
have.
But once my videos started getting a lot of views, I definitely was not viewed the same
way.
You see this happen to a lot of artists in any creative field where they get a big break
and then all of a sudden people start coming out of the woodwork talking about how they
don't deserve it.
And for as much as the casual audience loved those videos, they certainly started to rub
people the wrong way in my neck of the woods.
I don't believe that I acted arrogantly.
I don't believe that I acted prideful.
That's how it may have been perceived by people back then, but that wasn't what I was putting
out.
I tried to share the success.
A lot of people forget this, but I hosted collabs.
I really tried to get a lot more talented people in the community seen.
I wanted to be generous, you know?
But it seems like no matter how much stuff I did to try to elevate other people, it wasn't
necessarily appreciated.
So you had a lot of success at a time where not many others did.
Do you ever experience regret that maybe you should have capitalized on it more?
I mean, that's how a lot of YouTubers would have treated it.
Many people on this website have found great success by taking the Machiavellian approach,
just sort of treating their audience as another means to an end.
Back then I could have definitely cashed in on something trendy like MLG montage parodies,
and who knows how my career could have turned out and just how big my audience could have
been today.
In hindsight, it's easy to envision yourself making all the right choices, so much so that
we often lose sight of how we could have made the wrong ones.
Something tells me that if I had sold out way back then, things probably wouldn't have
worked out for me.
I don't think I was ready to take that next step.
I was still way too young, and I didn't appreciate what it was like to truly struggle.
So at the end of 2014, I started off on what was probably my biggest project ever at that
point, which was the Frying Nemo series.
It basically took me six months to release these four YouTube poops covering the entire
runtime of Finding Nemo.
And for what I could realistically achieve at the time, it was ambitious.
I worked really, really hard on it.
It was the hardest I worked on any project to that point.
Somewhere along the way, I really was not having fun.
It was probably the first time making any YouTube poop where I was not really enjoying
the ride.
It was pretty much the first hint I got that my time in YouTube poop was starting to come
to a close.
I think somewhere along the way, it became less about what I want to make and more about
what I think the fans are going to enjoy watching.
And many YouTubers can attest to this, but doing that is kind of the one way to suck
the enjoyment out of whatever you're working on.
And to make matters worse, the reception to the end of the series wasn't really what
I'd been hoping for.
So a lot of the YouTube poop community, they like to reside on this forum known as YouTube.
I uploaded Deep Frying Nemo, which was part four, the final part of the Frying Nemo series.
And on the general discussion page, it was just a fucking page and a half of people ridiculing
the video.
It was hard to see all these people, many of which I looked up to and respected.
Just being so bitter about me uploading this video.
That moment for me was sort of like, I'm an outsider in this community.
I'm not really well liked anymore.
I may have been liked at one point, but I never capitalized on it enough to sort of
sustain that goodwill.
And now it seems like a lot of people in this community no longer hold me in good esteem.
And it was tough.
It was tough to be motivated to continue after that, knowing that your contemporaries, the
people you relate to most in making this very niche style of video, they don't really like
you.
I think that summer, the summer of 2015, I really started to consider stepping away from
YouTube Poop.
That summer, actually, I passed a pretty huge milestone.
I passed 100,000 subscribers.
I think only two, maybe three other people had ever gotten that far from a channel uploading
exclusively YouTube Poops.
Within that genre, there were really no more barriers left to overcome.
I'd done everything.
I don't know if I exactly knew it at the time, but ready or not, it was time for me to sort
of turn over the next page in my career.
So this is my 100,000 subscriber play button that I got back in 2015.
A lot of YouTubers today don't even know that they used to look like this, but I definitely
like the old design a lot better.
It felt a lot more personal and special.
I guess you could say that's how the whole site was back then.
But as luck would have it, passing 100K was only the second most fortunate thing to happen
to me that year.
Because at around the same time, I got a little message in my YouTube dashboard saying that
I'd been approved for monetization.
This was something for me that didn't even seem like it should have been on the table.
And it would absolutely never happen today.
During this whole time so far and getting all those millions and millions of views,
I had never actually earned a cent of revenue for myself.
It was all complimentary for the fans, you know.
My motivation with YouTube at the time was never about making money.
And based on the type of videos I was making, it wasn't something you could do regardless.
And it really never occurred to me until that moment that YouTube could actually be a viable
career choice.
It's just really funny because every couple of years or so when I was starting to lose
motivation, YouTube would just throw me a bone to keep me in the game.
And here was another one, just YouTube offering me free money on a silver platter.
It's pretty crazy how it happened that way.
Looking back, I feel like I just had to be in the perfect place at the perfect time for
the stars to align in that way.
But what do you know?
YouTube works in mysterious ways.
And all of a sudden, I had a whole new purpose for making videos.
I had a lot of new priorities, initiatives that I wanted to try out with my channel.
But I just wasn't quite ready to take that step.
For the moment, I actually went back to making YouTube poops, sort of like how I used to
make them right when I started.
I mean, I stopped caring so much about what the final product would be, and I just sort
of put a video together and put it out.
I think mentally, I just tried to go back, back to a time when all this stuff was just
still intrinsically fun for me, where the act of making the video in and of itself was
where the value came from.
But of course, at this stage in my career, it couldn't possibly go back to exactly how
it was.
And YouTube viewers, 95% of the time, all they really want is one type of thing done
one sort of way.
And my viewers at the time wanted an eight and a half minute YouTube poop about a Pixar
movie.
And when I stopped delivering, they stopped tuning in.
So as I started releasing these new, more experimental YouTube poops, the views started
dwindling downward.
The thing about success on YouTube is that it's oftentimes fragile.
One year you can feel like you're just on top of the world, but anyone who's been in
the game long enough will tell you that it can all go away like that.
I'm not one of these people whose self-worth is intrinsically tied to how many people are
watching them on the internet.
It really didn't make that much of a difference to me.
What did start to bother me at that point was the comment section.
It started off with just a few.
Go to any comment section on YouTube and you'll find them.
But as time went on and I kept putting out these videos that most of the audience didn't
care for, that vocal minority started to grow a lot.
And you know, I was someone who was perceptive to it.
I used to read every single comment I got.
Every day, every time I'd log into YouTube, I'd go to the comments tab and read them all.
I don't do it anymore.
It's just, it's just too much mentally to deal with.
Especially once the audience grew to a point where it was just thousands and thousands
of people sharing their opinions.
I don't think that the human mind was designed to deal with this many people talking to you.
But back then, I stuck through it.
That was like the lifeline to me with the audience.
I find prestige in entertaining an audience of people.
And the comment section, that's the primary means of communication for expressing whether
or not a viewer was entertained.
So it meant a lot to me.
It meant more than the views and the money.
Numbers, they're just numbers.
You can count them all day.
But it's the human element of the comment section.
That is the sauce that really ties everything together.
But for as much as I extol the meaningfulness of reading the comments, sometimes you encounter
those moments when it's just an absolute bitch.
I think the final turning point for me was when I decided to make The Simpsons green.
I really liked working on this video.
I considered it one of the best videos I'd made in over a year.
This video for me epitomized everything about why I was inspired to make these videos in
the first place.
It may seem stupid.
It may seem very dumb to get sentimental over videos as ultimately stupid as YouTube poops
are.
But at this point, it was 2016.
It was almost six years of my life, thousands of hours of my free time dedicated to making
these videos.
And sure, everyone else may call it stupid, but these videos and the process of making
them were meaningful to me.
Green Simpsons was meaningful to me.
But that day, the comment section didn't agree.
God, after a while, it's just like, can you people just get off my damn back?
Jesus Christ, man.
I make these videos for fun.
I put these videos out for years for all of you to enjoy for free.
And then I make one or two that you don't like and all of a sudden it's this big problem
and you have to make it my problem.
I just complain after complain after complain.
And it wasn't all of them.
It wasn't even a majority of them.
But it was a level of bitching unlike anything I had ever personally experienced before.
I mean, making YouTube poops is all about fun.
It's supposed to be fun.
Well, I wasn't having fun anymore.
You know, I really tried.
I really tried to just kind of graciously ride off into the sunset.
But the circumstances were such where that wasn't going to happen.
I took it hard.
I took it really hard.
I was very upset.
I had never been this upset before making YouTube videos.
I just couldn't believe what I was seeing.
These people who had just enjoyed this content I made for years that I put out for free to
just turn on me like that.
It really just threw a wrench into my whole philosophy of where I derive enjoyment from
making videos.
I used to think it was all about the fans.
All about pleasing them.
Not only were they displeased, but now I had become displeased.
And again, I apologize if I'm being overly corny or sentimental by saying this, but back
then YouTube poop and making YouTube videos, that was one of the only things that I really
liked doing.
It was one of the only things that I considered myself good at.
It was as big a part of my life as anything else.
And my oh so beloved audience took it away from me.
They made it so that I couldn't enjoy it anymore.
And upon realizing that, something in me changed.
And that right there was the moment that Emperor Lemon died and was replaced by Emplemon.
I'm sensing a lot of anger from this time period.
Yeah.
And how did that make you feel?
Angry.
God, people are always wondering when exactly the downward spiral began.
I think that this moment right here is a pretty good candidate for when.
I mean the whole story before this, you could pick and choose times when you think I'm in
the downward spiral.
But after this happened, I am without question in the downward spiral.
I think it was six years to the day of when I first opened my YouTube channel when I uploaded
the We Need to Talk video.
With that being said, I have a lot of stuff I really need to get off of my chest.
The way I see it, these people had bitched and moaned and complained and ruined my day.
And now it was my turn.
I don't need people to boss me around about fucking YouTube poops where the entire fucking
purpose is to get away from that bullshit.
I'll show you complaining.
I'll show you the best complaining that anyone has ever seen.
I will make an entire career out of complaining.
If you're one of these people with the fucking delusion to think that I will listen to your
hackneyed demands, you need to unsubscribe from this channel right now.
I don't want you subscribed.
You know, they say you shouldn't do this in all the little YouTube advice tutorial videos
that you find from some Indian guy who hasn't even managed to crack 10,000 subscribers.
It's not part of the pre-composed YouTube tips to make an entire video snapping on your
audience and telling them how much you hate them.
Oh, I'm sorry, is it not fun enough for you?
Too bad.
I stopped having fun a long time ago.
Send me the crap below 100,000 again.
At least it would remind me of a time when the shit was still fun.
YouTube, whatever it is at this point, is clearly not about having fun anymore.
That day, I made it very, very clear.
I'm not going to be pushed around by the whims of this audience anymore.
Any video you see on the future of this channel, it won't be because of you.
It won't be for you.
It was a mistake to care so much about them.
I never really have since.
People unsubbed.
People stopped watching.
Views went down.
Revenue went down.
I didn't care.
I'd been happy making videos for no viewers.
I'd been happy making videos for no money.
You had people coming out saying that I was done, that I would never amount to anything,
that I'd bow out of YouTube and quit, and they'd dance on my grave for having the audacity
to lash out against the oh-so-prestigious audience.
And you know what?
It was probably very reasonable for them to believe that.
People didn't do what I just did, but that was the road I traveled.
It was time to stick with it.
The summer of 2016, I made all sorts of videos.
It was the most varied my content had been and probably ever will be.
I'd been wanting to branch out and try new videos for a while, but it was this moment
in rejecting the fans that truly pushed me into it.
Because as for the channel, I hit the reset button.
I pretty much took the old channel, burnt it to the ground, and built a new one out
of the ashes.
The views at one point got very lean.
There was a period where I'd upload a video and it would only get 10,000 views.
Pretty much a 99% decline, 99 out of 100 people had stopped watching me.
There would be entire months during that summer when I had negative subscriber growth.
Pretty much every video I'd upload, I would lose subscribers.
Not very healthy-looking metrics for a growing channel.
But you know what?
I didn't care.
For the first time in what felt like forever, I actually had the freedom to work on what
I wanted to make.
In confronting this taboo of not trying to screw with the audience, I ended up overcoming
this fear of losing them.
It was a mutual departure.
I didn't need them and they didn't need me.
It's just the reality of making content online.
People come and people go.
It was a strange time to be an M.Plemon fan, but those few people who stuck around, well,
they were in for quite a ride.
So 2016 was a pretty tumultuous year for me, personally.
I'd have to say that if I look back at every single year in my life, that was probably
the one year in which I had the most personal change.
But hey, you know, just because I'm on a downward spiral, it doesn't mean everything
else has to be.
And if there was one saving grace of 2016, it was that there was all of a sudden plenty
of great stuff to watch on YouTube.
To this day, I always maintain that 2016 was the best year for YouTube content.
Basically in this year, you saw people become legends.
Filthy Frank, iDubbbz, Keemstar, Leafy, even H3H3 at this point was making good videos.
I see posts in the modern age, trying to write off this era as being just unnecessarily
edgy or trying too hard or having a detrimental influence on whatever future generation you
may consider.
These guys deserved the success they achieved.
They pushed the boundaries harder than any other group of YouTubers before or since.
The content produced during this time was just simply at another level.
It may seem sappy to talk about it this way, to be so reverent over what was essentially
just a bunch of guys goofing around and starting drama with each other.
But you'd be hard pressed to find another period of YouTube history that was more interesting
and more dynamic.
It was just a time when people were just so free and unafraid to push the needle.
In hindsight, knowing what was coming next, we probably should have been a little bit
more afraid.
These guys were truly influential and they influenced me.
I got to see what was possible on YouTube.
And towards the end of 2016, I was finally starting to get a little bit of momentum back
on my side.
I remember at the end of the year, I came out with the empty subscribers video and then
the top 10 dank memes of 2016.
And these were pretty much the first proto M.Plemon videos of the modern age, where I
actually sat down, wrote a script, recorded, and edited a complete product.
I remember at the end of 2016, I hit a very big personal milestone.
I had my first $1,000 month on YouTube.
And it gave me a slight glimmer of hope that I could continue this into the future.
You know, after all this strife and all this turmoil, the channel wasn't dead yet.
There's still a little bit of life left in it.
There were still new people tuning in, new growth to be had.
It was basically a new channel with a new audience and a new direction, but things were
looking up.
It seemed like it was going to get easier.
Little did I know just how foolish it was to place that much faith in YouTube.
Just when they pull you back in, it seems like every single thing conspires against
you to push you out.
God, man, 2017, what an awful year to be on YouTube.
It had to have been the worst.
It had to have been the worst year in YouTube history.
I know there's a lot of new people in the YouTube space who weren't around back then,
but if you ask people who were, people like me, they will get legitimate PTSD flashbacks
at how putrid of a year that was to make content on YouTube.
It all started from just some article from some douchebag journalist whose name doesn't
even deserve to be mentioned.
He's just complete garbage.
He writes this whole article for the Wall Street Journal about how he found some Coca-Cola
ads on a Johnny Rebel song.
Never you mind the fact that the Titanic music companies that basically almost tried to bully
YouTube out of existence in the first place, they manually claim and run ads on all these
songs.
That's the reason there's ads on it.
Didn't show up to the guy in the article for some reason.
No, it's YouTube's fault.
And Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, they can't be bothered to have their product alongside such raucous,
inappropriate content.
Oh no.
So that marked the opportunity for basically them and a lot of other Fortune 500 companies
to pull their ads out of YouTube entirely.
So you know how I had my first thousand dollar month in the December of 2016 or so.
I think by March, my monthly earnings for the entire channel was under a hundred.
I was basically making enough money off of my channel in those months to go to the grocery
store two times.
Thanks for the tens of thousands of views.
This is what you're worth now.
And this is what every YouTuber was worth now that didn't make squeaky clean, brand
friendly content.
Man, hearing all that makes me glad I chose a profession in psychiatric help.
Seems like every passing year, business just keeps going up.
Just old, dying dinosaur media who no longer have the interest to have pissed away all
the goodwill of the audience they once had.
It's their lone, dying clutches to maintain the last scrap of relevancy they could.
They saw all the audiences turning off the TV, cutting the cable cord and going to YouTube
to enjoy better content for free.
And they weren't willing to go down without a fight.
These companies, they had their chance to come into YouTube graciously, but they did
not choose to do so.
And I will always have a chip on my shoulder against them because of how they acted coming
in here.
YouTubers, man, I mean, we built this platform.
We worked for free for years, making content for people that was more compelling, more
interesting and more personal than anything you guys were putting out.
It could have come in graciously, but no, they wanted to come in and call the shots.
The YouTube trending tab, pretty much a joke now, but there was a time when you could actually
find decent and interesting stuff to watch on there from YouTubers.
Oh, but then Jimmy Kimmel and Jimmy Fallon and all the late night hosts decide we want
our stuff to not only compete in the same space with YouTubers, but we want to be given
special treatment.
I say it started happening probably around 2015, but it didn't really get obnoxious until
2017.
Late night TV show clips, you had to get them all in, all represented, big budget mainstream
movie trailers, big budget mainstream music videos from top 40 artists.
This was the content that was now the face of YouTube, or at least they were trying to
make it that way.
And of course, when the adpocalypse hits and all the actual homegrown native YouTubers
get absolutely slaughtered, all these companies just slide in, make themselves comfortable.
Of course, their ad rates never took a hit.
It was only us, the common man, the common YouTuber, the whole reason that motivates
you to get up and make content because it's achievable for us.
It's never achievable for you to become Jimmy Kimmel or for you to become a top 40 artist
with million dollar budget music videos.
That's the appeal of YouTube.
The idea that we, the common man, are making the content and we don't have to rely on million
dollar venture capitalist industry shills.
We don't need to rely on the whim of some old crotchety 80 year old producer who thinks
he knows what young people want to watch.
These companies, when given the chance early on, they tried to kill YouTube.
They tried to squash YouTube into the dust and keep the glass ceiling in place.
Keep that division between the regular plebs who should never amount to anything and the
golden boys, the mainstream Hollywood, New York City elite.
It wasn't a long time ago.
It was just 10, 15 years ago when all this stuff was going down and how easy it is for
YouTube to forget.
Because at the same time that all this homegrown talent that basically built the platform were
getting squashed, YouTube basically saw the legacy media that had antagonized us for so
long and laid down and said, you guys come on in, make yourselves comfortable.
We have no allegiance and no accountability to the very people who built this site.
We were basically used to build throne rooms for all these established companies to just
come in and sit down on top of us without having to earn a thing.
All you mainstream companies who tried to choke us out just a decade ago, you are now
the premier face of the entire website.
Welcome in.
We hope you enjoy your stay.
Maybe they did, but for the rest of us, we sure weren't enjoying our time on YouTube.
I can't speak for everyone else, but I was sure pissed.
I was pissed off at the direction of this website.
I felt like there was no longer a premium for making good videos.
It seemed like for a little bit there, YouTube was not just neglecting it, but actively making
the site inhospitable for interesting and dynamic content.
And for me, the abject downfall in the quality of YouTube content came to be embodied by
one channel.
It was a channel by the name of Behind The Meme.
Hello internet and welcome to Behind The Meme, where we take a look at the meaning and the
origin of your favorite memes.
And God, he got a ton of views and his videos were complete shit.
It was just awful, terrible, just complete dog shit content, bland, boring, no insight,
just like brainless popcorn content.
But man, people tuned in.
I don't know why they did, but they did.
He was on trending.
He was getting pushed by the algorithm in everyone's homepage and I could tolerate it
for so long until he made a video about YouTube poop.
It was one of my most hated videos of all time in my 10 plus years of watching videos
on this platform.
Just pump out the video for the hell of it.
And who the hell cares if you're representing whatever you're talking about correctly or
even remotely, informatively?
No, no, no.
That's just the standard on YouTube that's being promoted at this point.
Pump out a bunch of complete shit content and all the stupid idiot viewers will just
lick up the slop.
And I had had enough of it.
I had had enough of seeing the direction of the site.
So I basically took years of rage and inflicted it on this one guy.
And that was the behind the meme video.
About 2016 and much of 2017, it was a big trend on YouTube to start drama.
Call someone out and air your beef.
Some would call it toxic.
Yeah.
There's always been toxic content on YouTube.
I would call it keeping people honest and accountable and making sure that the overall
quality of content on this site doesn't devolve into absolute dog water.
This behind the meme guy, people were already sick of him long before I touched the topic.
But Hey, you know what?
I saw all these people making these call out videos to great success.
Now it was my turn to become the content cop.
And man, to say that it's my most controversial video would be an understatement.
There are people today, five years after the fact who still refuse to watch anything I
make because of what they saw me say in that video, there were a lot of people pissed off
at what I was saying, but you know, after having my whole audience turn on me in 2016,
I was used to it.
It didn't really phase me.
And you know, they had their reasons.
The criticism I got from that video was not unwarranted.
There's a lot of stuff said in that video that was pushing the limits of acceptability.
Do I regret releasing the behind the meme video?
Well, I can say it was definitely a lot more trouble than it was worth.
I did gain quite a few new fans from that.
It was probably my first million view video since the YouTube Poop era.
It was kind of like opening a Pandora's box of sorts.
I had never made a video before that going so hard after one individual channel.
And I didn't really anticipate my audience who had been mostly indifferent with anything
I'd made for the past year and a half.
I wasn't really expecting them to be so emboldened with what I was saying and to really go after
this guy and just hammer him for weeks and months after the fact.
It caused a lot of heartache, a lot of strife, a lot of anger.
But do I regret putting it out?
I don't really know.
I think to say I regretted it would be like to say that whole part of my development on
YouTube didn't matter.
I could try to play it off as much as I want.
But at the end of the day, I know deep down that I meant what I said in that video.
In my mindset and my mental state at that time and my anger towards the direction of
this website, that video wasn't going to turn out any other way.
It was a product of its time, no doubt.
If I could do it over knowing what I know today, then yeah, I probably would have done
things a bit differently in that video.
That video, whether you like it or not, that was simply the next stepping stone in my development.
And I wouldn't be in the position I am today had it not been for the mistakes I learned
from that video.
But you know, I made my drama video and I had a tension that I had not had since 2014 or 2015.
After releasing that video, I definitely turned over a new chapter of the downward spiral.
You know, I complained and bitched and been abrasive and cantankerous for many videos
before that.
But this was the first one where people actually listened.
It was definitely something I had not experienced up until that point in my career.
You know, whether they were for or against the video, people were paying attention.
People were listening and people were taking it seriously.
It was the first time I'd released something out onto the internet and really made people
pay attention.
It's easy to just watch content online and be aloof and indifferent towards all of it.
But this video made people angry.
Whether they were angry at me or angry at behind the meme, they cared.
It certainly made an impression on me to basically take all these people and rile them up.
It was power and agency that I suddenly had in my hands.
And over the course of the next year, I was definitely experimenting to see how far I
could push it.
Don't you think that it's a little hypocritical to complain about being badgered by your audience
just to turn around and do the very same thing to Behind the Meme?
Well, let's not mince words here, alright?
The content was piss poor.
There's no getting around it.
And yours wasn't?
I guess the difference for me is that I was trying to make good videos.
I never got the impression that he was.
You know, there's very little separating his stuff from something like BuzzFeed or WatchMojo.
Just a bland, soulless content farm.
I don't want to hear this revisionist history about how his videos were actually decent
because they weren't.
Just because you feel sorry for the guy doesn't change that.
Did Behind the Meme deserve to be criticized?
Absolutely.
But I'll acknowledge that at some points, perhaps the criticism went a little too far.
Well, don't you feel at least a little sympathy for the role that you played in it?
You know, the way some people retell it, it was like I literally sent people out there
to go harass the guy.
Let's set the record straight.
That never happened.
That was never my intent.
Did the hate go too far?
Yes.
Okay, yeah, I think so.
I'll admit it.
And after a while, I did start to feel bad for the guy.
It's part of the reason why I've since tried to distance my content from YouTube drama.
Because after a certain point, it's just not worth it.
It just becomes too exhausting.
And I get it, you know.
There's enough problems in the world.
Why create another one?
At the time, that was the video I wanted to make.
But it wouldn't be long before I would start holding myself to a higher standard.
I think at this point, it's important to reiterate that I still wasn't planning to do YouTube
full time.
There was maybe a brief moment six months earlier when I was considering it.
But in the middle of 2017, YouTube was basically on the verge of financial ruin for the vast
majority of its creators.
And it didn't exactly look promising for the future.
It was a really rough time.
Probably the worst time in the past 10 years to try to earn a living off of YouTube.
I'm not exactly the type of person you'd consider to be a strategic optimist.
I'm not someone who sits around hoping that things magically get better.
No, the way I do things, I'm always really perceptive of the realities of how things
are in the current moment.
And in that moment, YouTube did not look like the way to go.
I'd resolved within myself that I would use the supplemental income that YouTube provided.
But that there would come a point in the near future where I would have to abandon YouTube
and enter the workforce and get a conventional job.
And the whole point of mentioning this is to reiterate that even as recently as 2017,
I was still not fully committed to putting YouTube in my future.
And that definitely affected how I ran the channel at the time.
Because quite simply, I wasn't building for the future.
I didn't see my future on YouTube.
And there were moments back then where I was basically planning to flame out and just squeeze
as much goodwill and attention out of this channel that I possibly could have before
I inevitably crashed it into the ground.
I remember that summer of 2017, the state of the website just continued to deteriorate.
The infamous demonetization system was starting to get rolled out.
And it was pushed out long before it was ready.
And it was just a total mess.
It was a time when you couldn't even touch a sensitive topic without your video turning
yellow and your potential revenue being slashed 60-70%.
It was awful.
It was just paralyzing.
You couldn't do anything.
You couldn't take the slightest risk without being in just financial ruin.
So much effort being spent on videos that was just all for naught.
And when they demonetized your video, they wouldn't just take away your revenue.
And they tried to deny this for the longest time.
But after enough experience from everybody, it was just indisputable.
You would not only get less revenue, you would get less views and less exposure.
And after enough people saw how their videos did while monetized versus demonetized.
It was a night and day difference.
YouTube tried to pretend that it wasn't there, but everyone caught on.
There was no hiding it.
And there was a lot of adaptation that was forced on by these monumental changes.
Content as a whole was forced to be less interesting and less inspiring.
It's just like everything got forced into this bottleneck of being bland, safe, and
just totally unwilling to step on anyone's toes.
I'd be damned if I wasn't just dismayed seeing every day on this website people neutering
their content to adhere to their guidelines.
And I had initially placed my frustrations on a guy like Behind The Meme.
I took all this frustration of YouTube basically burning down in front of my eyes and pinned
it on one guy.
And it didn't take long for me to see how that was a little unfair.
And how my anger and resentment should have been placed somewhere else.
And so I shifted my focus to YouTube.
Some may have called it awfully arrogant of me to do so, biting the hand that feeds.
People pointed out how it was awfully hypocritical of me to direct all this hate towards YouTube.
I wouldn't have cared so much if deep down I didn't love YouTube.
And that was really the honest fact of the matter.
I loved YouTube.
And I saw this thing I loved probably more than anything else in my life gradually just
decay into a shell of its former self.
And it was extremely disheartening to me.
So I released the video, YouTube has been on a downward spiral.
And pretty much everything in there just comes straight from the heart.
You know I never had any intentions to damage YouTube or to cause the site to fail at my
hands.
For me it was just a means of saying like, what are we doing?
What have we done with this place that was once so beautiful and robust and just a sanctuary
for independent creators to make these low budget creative works and express themselves.
This is what YouTube was all about.
You could broadcast yourself and then look what we've become.
I had a lot of pain for sure.
And it was almost like I wanted to make everyone else feel as upset and betrayed as I was.
And for a lot of people, yeah, that video was very upsetting, but I think a lot of other
people felt vindicated that someone was finally stepping up and speaking their mind on a lot
of these issues that they were thinking but were perhaps too timid to bring to light.
And it was all of a sudden with this video where I felt like I had a greater purpose.
Where it was no longer about hedonistically and selfishly just putting videos out there
and getting views and revenue for myself.
I felt like I was now speaking on behalf of the greater YouTube community.
And you know I wore that as a badge of honor.
You could call it virtue signaling or grandstanding or whatever, but I really felt good being
in that role.
Being sort of the mouthpiece for all these other misfortunate creators who got sacrificed
for the system.
For a moment I just really reveled in being the guy to speak the honest truth of the situation
and not worry about what would happen to my channel.
And I was ready at that point to basically ride off into the sunset until YouTube kicked
me off.
I didn't care.
I was dealing with something that was bigger than me.
And yeah, maybe it was arrogant of me and maybe there were points when I was in over
my head.
But it was definitely a fire that was lit underneath me that was making me more motivated
than at any time that I could remember.
So towards the end of the year, I start really trying hard on these videos.
I really start putting a lot of effort into the editing and the writing and the pacing.
Trying to basically make the best product that I could make.
I pretty much wanted to prove to everyone else and myself that I could.
That my videos could be in the same league as the best of the best on this website.
And so I started working on what was probably my most ambitious project to date.
The video that would eventually become the Donald Trump meme theory.
And looking back, this was probably the very first video that I would consider to be in
the modern M.Plemon era.
I remember this was the first written video where I finished it and was able to look back
on it with some kind of pride.
And I always remember what happened next.
I remember I posted it and it was up for about a day.
And then, within probably a few hours, it got demonetized and copyright claimed.
And I was completely discouraged.
And for me, for a while, that was pretty much the final straw.
I mean, I had this video that was like the first video that I was really and truly proud of.
And I do all this work just to put it up there and basically get the ultimate middle finger from YouTube.
You can put in all this effort and people can watch and like it.
But at the end of the day, your kind is basically not welcome here.
And me continuing to try to give the site a chance and give it the benefit of the doubt,
I was done.
I was not going to tolerate this disrespect anymore.
And I was ready to just straight up quit right there.
I typed up what was basically a resignation letter from YouTube.
And I was ready to put it up as just one last final fuck you to my YouTube career.
And I fully believe I would have gone through with it and just quit that day.
But you know, this strange thing about YouTube, throughout my entire career, just when I was
ready to leave every time, something pulled me back in.
So I had appealed the copyright claim and I'd appealed the demonetization.
And thus far, I didn't have very good luck with it.
But lo and behold, right as I was about to go put together this video of me quitting,
I refreshed the video manager to see the green dollar sign looking at me again.
And man, that was one of the most surreal moments I've ever had on this website.
It was almost like a moment of divine intervention, where I'd been taken to the absolute darkest
place I'd ever been on YouTube.
And one tiny glimmer of light came through.
And I took it as a sign.
I took it as a sign to say that my time here isn't up just yet.
I have a little bit more business to attend to.
Two weeks after that moment, YouTube announces YouTube Rewind for 2017.
And something about that just really didn't sit right with me.
I mean, for a year as punishing as 2017 was to just most of the talent on the website,
how tone deaf do you have to be to put on this whole glamorous end of the year celebration?
As if all the strife and struggle you put your users through during the entire year
just didn't matter.
Like you were just sweeping it all under the rug.
So I come up with this little document, basically saying how YouTube has screwed over and mistreated
its creators for the entire year.
And how we as YouTubers should basically protest all of this mistreatment by going to YouTube
Rewind and pressing dislike.
And YouTube Rewind starts getting a lot of dislikes.
It was getting to a point where it was like a top 50, top 25 most disliked video in history.
I don't really know how much of it I can personally take credit for.
But one thing was definitely for sure.
And it was that I was not alone in being pissed off at YouTube.
And YouTube, of course, caught wind of it.
They saw that YouTube Rewind was getting an abnormal amount of dislikes.
And they saw that a lot of it could be traced back to me, a guy who had made a post instigating
people to do so.
I never got any official word that this was the case, of course.
But by this point, I had lots of friends in the community.
When I heard some stuff through the grapevine, they singled me out as the guy who had led
the campaign against YouTube Rewind.
And I don't think it's overtly paranoid for me to say that for the next year or so on
the website, I definitely felt like a target.
I definitely felt like YouTube was putting the screws to me.
There would be times when I'd upload a video and there'd be absolutely nothing wrong with
it.
And it would still get demonetized.
You could show that video to a hundred people and none of them would find anything objectionable
in it.
But I put it up and within a minute, it would be demonetized.
You guys want to make it this difficult, fine.
I'll play ball.
I'm not afraid to be a martyr.
I'll follow the rules.
I'll follow all the guidelines you need just to prove that you guys are screwing with me.
So this was actually the point in the channel where I started making my more professional
looking series.
Series that I intentionally designed to be a bit more polished and a bit more accessible
for general audiences.
It was basically just me proving to YouTube that I was capable of acting as professionally
as anyone else.
And that all these problems they were giving me were simply out of their own prerogative.
And I swear to this day that for a while there, something was definitely up.
My channel was definitely on some kind of list, but you know, by this point around the
summer of 2018, I kind of been on my anti YouTube war path for a year and a half now.
And it was fun for a little bit to keep up this persona of Mr. Rant.
But after a while, you just start to run out of gas.
Sometimes people have made very long and lucrative careers out of being the guy who complains
about whatever topic.
And I don't have anything against it.
More power to them.
It's not easy to consistently succeed on YouTube.
And if you can find a formula to do so, then that's good for you.
But after being the bitchy complaint guy for so long, I started to realize that I just
can't keep this up forever.
And just being angry and disgruntled all the time, surprise, surprise, it wasn't making
me happy.
I mean, YouTube at that point still wasn't getting any better.
So it's not like all these complaints were actually amounting to anything.
You know, in the moment, it feels real good to get all these people riled up based on
something you say, and to basically create this army of people to go out and raise hell.
But after a while, it feels like you just run out of things to complain about.
And so I thought to myself, instead of wasting all this time and effort and resources complaining
about how much YouTube sucks now, wouldn't it be nice if instead you could just be a
reason why YouTube doesn't suck?
I think there comes a point in every YouTuber's career where you've been around long enough
to where you reach this inevitable question of, what am I doing here?
What are we doing here?
I mean, you can only get so many views and subscribers before it all starts to just fade
away into meaningless numbers.
After a while, the whole YouTube experience that people think they're getting into just
all becomes sort of peripheral.
Just a bunch of statistics.
No more tangible than the electricity coming out of your computer screen.
And so that was kind of the point I was at in mid-2018.
For the past five years or so, I'd been motivated by a variety of different factors.
It felt like over that whole period, I had been making videos for someone else.
Whether I was trying too hard to please the audience or trying too hard to prove a point
to them, I was all of a sudden asking myself what I wanted and what I wanted to get out
of making videos.
From that point on, I pretty much just put my head down and started working on what I
thought were good videos.
I started turning up the work and the research and the editing to make my stuff something
that I could be proud of.
I think the real turning point for me was the Leafy video.
This was the first time I can remember where I basically just buckled down for an entire
month where I just worked my ass off to create this good product.
It ended up being quite successful.
I got a lot of attention and views and subscribers for it.
But the one thing about that video that I found really encouraging was that it felt
like the first time I'd used my power on YouTube constructively.
Where I'd presented a project so engaging that a lot of people who watched it ended
up changing their mind about something that they thought they knew very well.
It's often difficult on YouTube to tell whether you're actually good and talented at something
or whether your success is just a circumstance of hype and bandwagoning off the latest trend.
And with the Leafy video, people were definitely impressed.
I could tell that my success was no fluke.
I'd put out a good product.
And now it was time to use my abilities to make more videos like it.
So during the whole time I was making rant videos complaining about how much things sucked,
there was sort of this opposite voice welling up in me, wanting to take the opposite approach.
Where instead of spending all this time shaming mediocrity, I create a series where I celebrate
greatness.
I mean, after all, greatness is a lot more special than mediocrity.
And part of me for a while felt like it was worth talking about it.
So this idea about celebrating excellence eventually turned into my most successful
video series to date.
Never ever.
It's hard to believe that I've only made six episodes so far because its impact has felt
much more significant than that.
I don't think I originally envisioned the series to be like that, but it ended up becoming
quite special.
And that was simply a product of each episode's subject being special to me.
I ended up going the extra mile to make sure that these topics were treated with the care
and respect that they deserved.
I was very fortunate that never ever succeeded in the way that it did because it helped transform
my channel from this place of rage and negativity into something that was a lot more positive
and a lot more pleasant.
It definitely inspired a turn for my videos to become a whole lot less cynical and bitter.
I mean, you could say whatever you want about these videos, but you have to admit that they
have heart.
And sometimes on YouTube, that's all people are looking for.
A lot of people out there, they don't have it so good.
A lot of them come to YouTube wanting really hard to feel something.
And I'm glad that my videos have been able to provide that service to so many.
So by the end of 2019, I graduated from college and I had a pretty big decision to make.
Leading up to it, you would have never guessed that I would have picked YouTube, but I did.
I remember looking at my videos and my body of work over the last year and for the first
time in my whole career, I was actually impressed with myself.
And by this point, my channel was growing again.
I had successfully recovered a new audience that were excited and eager to engage with
what I was going to put out next.
I felt like I was earning a level of respect that I didn't even come close to getting
back when I made YouTube poops.
Downward spiral.
I'm gonna dig straight to hell, gamers.
And I think that's what ultimately ended up convincing me to take the leap of faith
and actually pursue YouTube full time.
It's like at long last, after spending so much time making these videos, I'm finally
at a place where I feel like I belong and that the people around me and the people who
watch me believe in me.
And I think that was enough to finally make me believe in myself.
Didn't you and I have a podcast around this time too?
Wait, what?
Oh, that.
Uh, let's just say that there are certain things I'd prefer to leave in the past.
You know, for the longest time, I had been treating my YouTube career like I had nothing
to lose.
And that was honestly how I felt for years because I died the YouTube death.
People weren't supposed to come back from losing 99% of their audience.
For most YouTubers, that's supposed to be the nail in the coffin.
It's basically just the internet telling you to pack up your things and leave.
And most people, when they find themselves in that situation, they do.
They up and leave.
I didn't though.
It was like I had been fired and just kept showing up to the office.
Pretty much everything that came out of my channel after that point was just supposed
to be gravy.
It wasn't really supposed to amount to what it did.
During that time period, shortly after the downward spiral, I acted brazen for sure.
I acted like someone who probably wouldn't have their career much longer because back
then, I certainly felt like I didn't need YouTube and that they didn't need me.
Well, what a difference a few years can make.
My relationship with YouTube certainly changed.
All of a sudden, I leveraged a lot on my YouTube success and I could no longer afford to treat
it as flippantly as I once was.
I was no longer in a position where I could just throw caution at the wind and make whatever
video and upload whatever trash and hold the audience in such contempt as I once had.
There were a lot more stakes now and for the first time ever, I really needed the channel
to succeed.
And these high stakes all of a sudden became very apparent just a couple of months after
I decided to do YouTube full-time.
Of course, in the spring of 2020, COVID hit everything and shut everything down.
People in the conventional job market got screwed.
They basically got laid off with no means of income for the foreseeable future.
All of a sudden, the stable real job that everyone told me would be a sure thing and
told me it would be foolish to give up to chase some pipe dream of making YouTube videos
for a living, all of a sudden, that didn't look like such a good option.
I don't hold it against people for warning me that it was foolish to pursue YouTube because
it was.
At the time, every single indicator showed that it was a foolish decision.
But I just look back at that decision in absolute awe at how things worked out and how so quickly
the sure thing white collar cubicle job just became toxic.
It felt like being on one of the last life rafts off of the Titanic.
It's definitely a strange feeling to get what seems like a lot of breaks in the way that
I have.
Sometimes it feels like I'm falling into protagonist syndrome with just how fortunate things ended
up.
Or it's almost like I have this plot armor around me that insists the show must go on.
I think back to all those times when I thought about quitting YouTube entirely.
And there were many of them.
And now I'm probably just going to be doing this and making these videos until I physically
cannot anymore.
That's not to say it's been entirely smooth sailing, because it hasn't.
There were certainly a lot of demons from the past that continued to haunt me.
Behind the meme, you know, after I made that video about him, things didn't really work
out for the guy.
You want to talk about the downward spiral?
Well, it probably hit a little too close to home for him.
You know, there are a lot of other YouTubers back then who also made videos shitting on
the guy, many of whom were way more popular than I was at the time.
But no, historically, I'm going to go down as the guy who basically bullied behind the
meme into retirement.
It might not be exactly fair to see it that way, but I guess it goes to show, out of all
those videos made about him, mine was certainly the most persuasive.
It seemed like it took a while for my channel to get back in good standing with YouTube
after the whole tank the rewind thing.
Of course, it probably helped my case that one year after I instigated that whole movement,
YouTube released the 2018 rewind that went on to become the most disliked video in YouTube
history.
I think that kind of took a bit of the heat off of me to sort of show that maybe it was
more of a YouTube problem than an M.Plemon problem that the rewind got disliked.
And I think whatever bad blood they had for me, they kind of had to excuse it after that.
After enough time had passed, the demonetization that was once terrorizing pretty much everything
I made, it died down.
For the past two years, pretty much, I haven't had a problem with it.
I think by far, though, the most punishing sins that continued to follow me around was,
of course, the old YouTube poops.
By the end of 2017, I pretty much stopped making them entirely.
There wasn't really a big goodbye or anything like that.
I just sort of made them until I no longer cared to do so.
But even though I had pretty clearly left and moved on to greener pastures, I was still
getting my fair share of drama and controversy from that scene.
It was just like a bunch of ghouls who would just not forgive me for how I exited that
community.
And after a while, I got sick of it and just called them all out on it.
I made it known that I left for a reason.
And a lot of these people that just continued bitching for years after I left, they definitely
had their hand to play in it.
And it sucks.
It sucks that I left on such bad terms, but there are certain things you encounter in
your life that are just toxic.
And it's up to you to remove them and move on to a better place.
I think the saddest part of all of it was the YouTube poops themselves.
I had moved on from that time period for sure, but it still represented a significant part
of my personal history.
I mean, it's not something you could just throw away in a race.
Those memories of spending all those hours making those videos, they're going to be around
as long as I'm around.
You know, for as much animosity as I had leaving that community, it still very much shaped
the creator that I would eventually become.
I'm not one to try to delete videos and obfuscate the past, no matter how unsavory it might
be.
Many other YouTubers in my position would have deleted them off their channel a while
ago, but I wanted to keep them up.
They were an essential part of my history that represented pretty much half of the time
that I spent making content on this website.
Most of my new viewers, they don't care.
They're obviously here to watch the new stuff.
But for anyone who did and was curious into how I got to where I got, they were there
for them.
And I tried.
I tried to keep them up for as long as I could.
But eventually they put me into a position where their existence on my channel became
untenable.
I always got the suspicion that YouTube and their internal systems didn't like that I
had all these radically different videos on my channel.
For my entire career, I had seen my catalog of YouTube poops slowly but surely decay away
and become no longer viewable to the public.
I really tried to keep them up for as long as I could to preserve the memory.
But in June of last year, one of those videos put me in just such a bad situation that I
couldn't justify keeping them up on the channel anymore.
It was somewhat fitting that the big problem came from the original Green Simpsons video.
The video that arguably started the downward spiral to begin with.
Basically, YouTube flagged that video for terrorist activity.
And I didn't know it at the time, but when you get a strike of that nature, YouTube strips
your entire channel of monetization.
So within one instant, after getting one strike, I was making $0 off of any of my videos.
Had it happened earlier in my career, I just would have had no way out and I would have
been forced to quit right there.
Thankfully, I've reached a position in the YouTube community where I know enough people
who know people at YouTube and they can actually go in and manually get it resolved.
After 48 hours, I had my monetization restored and the biggest scare I had ever had on this
channel was averted.
But in those two days where I had my primary source of revenue stripped, I felt horrible.
I felt downright depressed.
I was at a point where I couldn't imagine myself doing anything else than making YouTube
videos.
If that would have been the end of my career, I don't know what I would have done.
Anything else I would have done with my life, I would have just been a ghost.
My heart wouldn't be in it.
It's excruciating.
It was an excruciating position to be in and it was only possible because of these YouTube
poop videos that were continuing to just cause me problems.
And so I sat on the idea for about a month and eventually I went through with it, where
I went through and privated every single YouTube poop on my channel.
Well not every single one.
I left my very first YouTube poop up just as sort of a totem to show people that this
is where it all began.
But everything else was pretty much gone.
That whole part of my history erased.
It was tough.
I felt real bad about it.
But you know, when I made the announcement that I was getting rid of them, something
very funny happened, where all the old Emperor Lemon fans started to come out of the woodwork,
telling me how much they loved the videos, how they were so sad to see them go.
I really wish they could have been around when I actually needed to hear that.
You know, back then, choosing to leave YouTube poop in the first place, I certainly didn't
feel appreciated.
Part of me wishes I had known then that these stupid videos actually did matter to a lot
of people.
But you know, it had to be done.
There was really no other way for me to constantly continue with this channel that I financially
depend on and jeopardize it in the way that these videos were.
I came to view it as basically 50 ticking time bombs, where it's only a matter of time
before any one of them could cause catastrophic issues in the future.
I had to do it.
I had to close that chapter of my career forever.
And then, once the deed was done, the funniest thing happened.
The next video I uploaded got on the Trending tab.
I always considered myself on the side of the platform that YouTube never wanted to
acknowledge.
And yet here it was, my video on Trending, the ultimate trophy case of YouTube favoritism.
To me, it was almost like a sign that after I'd sacrificed something so near and dear
to me, YouTube had finally relented and gave me the green light.
And ever since then, my videos have been performing better than at any point in the history of
my career.
I don't know if I believe in destiny, but with how this YouTube thing worked out, it's
really made me considerate.
So what does it mean that EmPlemon reached a million subscribers?
Something that realistically, in all likelihood, should have never happened in a million years.
But here we are.
I reached the proverbial YouTube mountaintop, the lifetime achievement award for a career
well spent.
Twelve years of trying, twelve years of frustration, but I made it.
I made it to the point that every YouTuber wants to reach when they first open up their
account.
It shouldn't have been possible.
Based on the types of videos I made and how I presented myself and all the times I wanted
to give up, it shouldn't have happened.
I'm not usually one to look at my subscriber numbers, but when the day came, I tuned in.
Seeing that number cross over to a million, it's something you only get to experience
once in a lifetime.
And so when the moment finally came, I just sort of sat there in front of my computer
monitor in stunned silence.
I felt like I just crossed over into a new reality that I didn't imagine was possible.
I mean, I thought I was capable of getting pretty far in YouTube, but not this far.
I always imagined that something would have come up and stopped me before I got the chance
to experience that moment.
But there it was.
I reached the million.
People can say what they want about me, but that's something that they can never take
away.
It's a big milestone, possibly the biggest that any YouTuber can experience.
I don't anticipate any other subscriber number being as impactful as seeing those digits
cross over into seven figures for the first time.
It was like when I reached a million, the credits of YouTube start rolling.
You've pretty much beaten the game.
Once you've reached that level of success, you've made it to the big leagues.
And I wasn't really sure at the time if I was ready to take that step.
Yeah, at the end of the day, it's just a number.
Nothing in reality tangibly changed from either side of that moment.
But I'll tell you what, I certainly felt different.
I felt like suddenly a huge weight and a huge pressure had been lifted, almost like
that chip on my shoulder I had for so many years had finally run out of steam.
You know, I've always been someone who's been motivated by the chase and not so much the
trophy.
It was hard work getting to a million, 12 years of my life.
As of that moment, I think I actually spent a majority of my life making YouTube videos.
But you know, throughout the whole story, I kind of felt this force pulling me along
because it was difficult, because a guy like me wasn't supposed to make it.
And throughout my whole career, I've always kind of made it my mission to prove people
wrong.
You know, finally reaching a million after all this time, it was really validating for
sure.
But I feel like I also lost a bit of the mojo that carried me to this point in the first
place.
I think thus far I've definitely been in a different mindset coming out of it.
And I'm just going to have to wait and see how that turns out.
And that pretty much brings us to today.
So I guess that's the story of my YouTube channel.
You know, there may be many others like it, but this one is mine.
Did he seriously just fall asleep?
Who am I kidding?
It's the best he's been at therapy in years.
Sorry for dozing off there.
The story was just kind of dragging on a bit.
Oh, come on, Rusty.
This is supposed to be a special moment.
Don't you feel special?
I mean, after all, I don't exactly do this kind of stuff every day.
So is that it?
Is the downward spiral finally over?
You know what?
I don't know about that.
You know, for the past six years, ever since I stopped making YouTube poops, I've been
telling myself that I've been on a downward spiral.
But now that I've passed a million, can I even still say that anymore?
Now that my career has finally reached the point where I passed that magic number, has
the downward spiral ceased to exist?
You know, have I finally come out of it, where I no longer have the grounds to complain about
how I've been treated on YouTube?
Because for the last couple of years, I'd say I've been treated pretty well.
And for part of me, it's hard to admit that.
You know, based on my experiences on YouTube and just how close I was at so many points
to the edge of control, I'm of the philosophy that it can all just go away in an instant.
And what's strange to think about is that how I feel now is oddly similar to how I felt
back in 2014, when everything seemed like it was going so well.
You know, going through the downward spiral back at 100K, I ended up surviving, yeah,
but it wasn't without its consequences.
It took a toll on me, for sure.
And I look at my channel now versus then, and it's 10 times bigger.
If you ask me, that's 10 times farther to fall.
It's a fall that's daunting enough where I'm not quite sure if I could survive this time around.
And so I think I'll always have that fear in the back of my head that the downward spiral
is not yet finished, and that I haven't seen the worst of it.
But hey, at the end of the day, that's the burden I carry.
It ain't easy being green.